












                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                 30765 S.Wixom Road
          
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                                Linux Software Library
                   Information File for AP323 Analog Input Board
                                        V1.0
                                      12/01/15




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt and LGPL.txt.






























   1. Overview

   This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the Library
   programs used for the following  Acromag  Industrial  I/O  Board:

        AP323 High Density Analog Input Board


   2. Introduction

   The Library for the AP323 board  is  implemented as a library of
   "C" functions.   This will make it possible to utilize the  board
   by  simply linking the user's code with the provided library  and
   making  function  calls for each "command"  to  be  accomplished.
   Most  of the function calls will require a few parameters or  the
   address  of a parameter block to be passed.   The parameters will
   include  the  board  address,   configuration  information,  data
   storage  addresses,   and  status  information.  These  functions
   accomplish the following tasks:


        - Configuration
        - Read Status
        - Read Analog Input

   Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
   library routines are used.  It is also a good program to use when
   first installing the board,  checking it out and learning how  it
   works.


   3. List of Files

   The  Library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in  a
   correspondingly  named  subdirectory on  the supplied media.  The
   files  which make  up the  library  software for the AP323 board
   are stored in the subdirectory named "AP323".

   There  are two types of program files provided.   Library program
   files are the files which make up the "library".  Support program
   files contain example programs which show how to use the library.


   3.1 Library Program Files

   The  following  files  are  included  on the  supplied  media and
   make up the actual "library" software.

        AP323.h   - include file
        cnfg323.c - configure
        rsts323.c - read status
        ain323.c  - read data multiple channels
        mccd323.c - multiple channel corrected data






				   1







   3.2 Support Program Files

   The  following files are included  on the supplied media.   The
   test program demonstrates how the library programs may be used.


         drvr323.c  - test program for the boards.
         apcommon.h - generic include file for support.
         apcommon.c - generic source file for support.


   4. Software Installation

   It  is strongly advised that the user make a backup copy  of  the
   distribution media and that the original  distribution  media  be
   stored in a safe place.

   The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
   the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
   user's application program.


   5. Hardware Installation

   For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
   refer to  the appropriate user's manual. The following is a brief
   list of switch  selections  and  connections  which must be made.

        - Analog input type.
        - Analog input range.
        - Analog input connections.
        - External trigger connections.


   6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

   The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
   work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
   program.

 
 




  
  










				   2


















        It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
        board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.

        For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
        be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:

               (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the   information  file  in  the device driver
                 directory   "/home/AP/AP323/dev323/info.txt"   for
                 information about building and loading the device driver
                 module.

               (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

                  i)  Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "AP323"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/AP/AP323.


                  ii)  Copy   the  apcommon  support routines  from the
                  "apcommon" directory of the  source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under   /home/AP/apcommon. 


                  iii) From  a  tty  shell,   make  /home/AP/AP323  the
                  current directory, then use the makefile  to  build the
                  project.

                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out", use the 'run' 
                  and then 'continue' commands to start the program. 


                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.












				   3








    The following menu is displayed:

   AP323 Library Demonstration  Rev. A

    1. Exit this Program                9. Correct Data For Scan Array
    2. Set Up Configuration Parameters 10. Display Auto Zero Data
    3. Read Status Command             11. Display Calibration Data
    4. Attach Exception Handler        12. Display Raw Input Data
    5. Detach Exception Handler        13. Display Corrected Data
    6. Acquire Auto Zero Data          14. Display Corrected Data In Volts
    7. Acquire Calibration Data        15. Clear All Data Buffers
    8. Acquire Raw Input Data          16. View Reference Values

   Select:

   In preparation to read a single analog input the user typically
   would make the following sequence of menu selections:


        Select  2: To set up the Configuration Parameters.
        Select  6: To acquire auto-zero data.
        Select  7: To acquire calibration data.
        Select  8: To acquire raw input data.(Skip for Extern. Trig.) 
        Select  9: To Correct data for scan array.
        Select 10: To display auto-zero data.
        Select 11: To display calibration data.
        Select 12: To display raw input data.
        Select 13: To display corrected channel data.
        Select 14: To display corrected channel data in Volts.


   In preparation to read input while interrupts are enabled the user 
   typically would make the following sequence of menu selections:


        Select  2: To set up the Configuration Parameters.
        Select  4: To attach interrupt handlers.
        Select  6: To acquire auto-zero data.
        Select  7: To acquire calibration data.
        Select  8: To acquire raw input data.(Skip for Extern. Trig.) 
        Select  9: To Correct data for scan array.
        Select 10: To display auto-zero data.
        Select 11: To display calibration data.
        Select 12: To display raw input data.
        Select 13: To display corrected channel data.
        Select 14: To display corrected channel data in Volts.











				   4






				
   6.1 Explanation of Main Library Demonstration Menu


   Following is an explanation  of each menu selection:


        1. Exit this Program

        This selection causes execution to be returned to the shell.

        2. Set up Configuration Parameters

        Through  this menu  it will be  possible to  enter values into  
        the various structure members of  the Configuration Parameters 
        structure. See section 6.2 on the Configuration Parameter Menu 
        which follows.

        3. Read Status Command

        This  menu  selection  will call the rsts323() function  and
        pass  a pointer which  points  to  the  Configuration  Block
        structure.   The current status information is read from the
        board  and written  into this  structure  by  the  rsts323()
        function.     The board status information is then displayed
        by the example program.

        4. Attach Exception Handler

        This  menu selection allows the user to attach the interrupt
        exception  handler for use  with the demonstration  program.

        5. Detach Exception Handler

        This  menu selection is not implemented at this  time and is
        not generally needed.

        6. Acquire Auto Zero Data

        This command is used to obtain auto-zero values for the scan
        array.   Auto-zero  values will  be converted and updated in
        the auto-zero array.

        7. Acquire Calibration Data

        This command is used to obtain  calibration data  values for
        the scan array.   Calibration  values will  be converted and
        updated in the calibration array.











				   5







        8. Acquire Raw Input Data

        This command is used to obtain raw input data values for the
        scan array.  Each element active in the  scan  array will be
        converted  and  updated  in  the  raw input data scan array.
        The scan array parameters are selected in the  Configuration
        Parameters section.

        9. Correct Data For Scan Array

        This command is used to correct data for  multiple  channels
        in the scan array.   For each element  of  the  scan  array,
        auto-zero,  calibration,  and raw  input  data  are used  to
        produce the corrected data  value  that  is  placed  in  the
        corrected data array.

        10. Display Auto Zero Data

        This menu selection will display the auto-zero data  buffer.

        11. Display Calibration Data

        This  menu  selection  will  display  the  calibration  data
        buffer.

        12. Display Raw Input Data

        This  menu selection will display the raw input data buffer.

        13. Display Corrected Data

        This  menu selection will display the corrected data buffer.

        14. Display Corrected Data In Volts

        This  menu  selection  will  display  the  contents  of  the
        corrected data buffer in Volts.

        15. Clear All Data Buffers

        This  menu  selection will clear the auto-zero, calibration,
        raw, and corrected data buffers.

        16. View Reference Values

        This menu selection will display the four precision calibration
        voltage reference values used to correct conversion errors.











				   6








   6.2  Explanation of the Configuration Parameter Menu

   This  menu  is  displayed  when  the  user  selects  the  "Set  Up
   Configuration Parameters" menu item from the Library Demonstration
   Menu. Through the Configuration Parameter Menu it will be possible
   for the user to enter values into the Configuration Structure. The
   Configuration  Structure is  used by  the functions in the  AP323
   library.  Following  is the "Set Up Configuration Parameters" menu.
   All numbers  are  displayed  and entered  in hexadecimal.

        Configuration Parameters

        1. Return to Previous Menu
        2. Board Pointer       C1000000
        3. Input Range:        1
        4. Acquisition Mode:   0
        5. Scan Mode:          1
        6. Data Format:        0
        7. Timer Prescaler:    FF
        8. Conversion Timer:   0015
        9. Timer Enable:       1
       10. Trigger Direction:  1
       11. Interrupt Mode:     0
       12. Set Up Gain Array

       Select:
        (Note menu values will differ depending on your system.)


        Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

        1. Return to Previous Menu

        This selection returns the user to the  Main  Library  Menu.


        2. Board Pointer

        The AP module address is displayed.


















				   7








        3. Input Range

        This  selection  allows  the  user  to  enter  a  value that
        corresponds to the analog input range configuration  switch.
        The library routines need  the input  range  information  to
        determine what voltages to use for auto-zero and calibration
        data samples.  Valid values are as follows:

             Value
             -----
          0 to  +5       0
         -5 to  +5       1
        -10 to +10       2
          0 to +10       3


        4. Acquisition Mode

        This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
        Acquisition Mode.  Valid values are as follows:

             Value
             -----
        Differential     0
        Single Ended     1
        Auto Zero        2
        Calibration      3


        5. Scan Mode

        This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
        Scan Mode.  Valid values are as follows:

                 Value
                 -----
          Disable Scan            0
          Uniform Continuous      1
          Uniform Single          2
          Burst Continuous        3
          Burst Single            4
          External Trigger Only   5















				   8









        6. Output Data Format

        This  selection  allows  the user to  enter a value  for  the
        ADC Output Data Format.


        Valid values are as follows:

             Value
             -----
          Two's Compliment    0
          Straight Binary     1


        7. Timer Prescaler

        This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
        Timer Prescaler.  The Timer Prescaler is used to control the
        interval time between conversions.   The  timer value  is an
        8-bit value and has a minimum  allowed value  restriction of
        0x40 or 64 decimal.


        8. Conversion Timer

        This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
        Conversion Timer. The Conversion Timer is used together with
        the  Timer Prescaler  to derive  precisely  timed  intervals
        between conversions.   The timer value is a 16-bit value and
        has a minimum allowed value restriction of 1.


        9. Timer Enable

        This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
        Timer Enable.  Valid values are as follows:

             Value
             -----
          Disable Timer   0
          Enable Timer    1















				   9







        10. External Trigger Direction

        This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
        External Trigger Direction.     As  an  input,  the external
        trigger input may be driven from a TTL compatible, debounced
        signal.  As an output, the external trigger output may drive
        additional AP323s. Valid values are as follows:

             Value
             -----
          Trigger Disabled 0
          Trigger Input	   1
          Trigger Output   2


        11. Interrupt Mode

        This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
        Interrupt  Mode.       The  Demonstration  Program  supports
        interrupts on input channel  data  acqusition.    Interrupts
        on auto-zero or calibration data acqusition require the user
        to  write  their  own  interrupt  service  routines.   Valid
        values are as follows:

               Value
               -----
        Interrupts Disabled          0
        Interrupt After Each Channel 1
        Interrupt After Each Scan    2


        12. Set Up Scan Array

        This selection allows the user to enter values for the Scan
        to  be  used  for the conversion of  analog  input  signals.
        This selection will cause a brief menu to be displayed.  The
        user may choose to enter channel number order for each
        element of the array.




















				   10





   7. Description of Library Programs.

   Following  are descriptions of the programs and files which  make
   up the library.


   AP323.h - This module contains the definitions and  structures
   used by the library.


   rstsAP323() - This module is used to perform the  "read  status"
   function  for the AP323 board.   A pointer to the configuration
   structure is passed to this routine.  The routine uses a pointer
   within the configuration structure to reference registers on the
   board and transfers the status information from the board to the
   configuration structure.

        calling sequence:

        rstsAP323(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        configuration structure.



   convertAP323() - This module is used to read input channel data for
   the AP323  board.  A pointer to the  Configuration  Structure is
   passed to  this routine.    The Configuration Structure  contains
   information  used to  setup the  acquisition mode,  channels,
   select the  trigger type,  and to  point to  the  data
   storage area.

        calling sequence:

        convertAP323(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.



   ReadFlashID323() - This routine is used to read ID data from the device.

        calling sequence:

        ReadFlashID323(ptr, unsigned char *p);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.
        *p - pointer to place to put data read.






				   11






   mccdAP323() - This module is used to perform the "correct multiple
   channel data" function  for the AP323 board.   A pointer  to the
   Configuration Structure is passed to this routine.  The Structure
   contains pointers to the auto-zero, calibration,  raw input data,
   and  corrected  data  buffers.    The  routine  takes  the  auto-
   zero,  calibration,  and  raw  input  data  values as  inputs  to
   the  data  correction  equation.   The  corrected  data  is  then
   placed  into  the  corrected data array that corresponds  to that
   channel.

        calling sequence:

        mccdAP323(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.



   calibrateAP323() - This module is used  to  read  auto-zero  and
   calibration  data  for the  AP323  board.    A  pointer  to  the
   Configuration  Structure and the mode  (auto-zero or calibration)
   is passed to this routine.   The Configuration Structure contains
   information  used to  setup the  acquisition mode and to point to
   the data storage area.



        calling sequence:

        calibrateAP323(ptr, mode);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.
        mode - (int) The mode to use (auto-zero or calibration).



   cnfgAP323() - This module is used to perform the "Configure Board"
   function for  the AP323 board.   A  pointer to the Configuration
   Structure is passed to this routine.   The  routine  will  use  a
   pointer  within  the  Configuration  Structure  to  reference the
   registers  on  the  board.    Based  on  items  selected  in  the
   Configuration Structure, the board will be configured and various
   registers will be  updated  with  new information which  will  be
   transferred from the Configuration Structure.

        calling sequence:

        cnfgAP323(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.



				   12







   ReadCalCoeffs323()  - This module is used to perform the read the
   calibration  coefficients  for  the  board.     A pointer  to the
   Configuration Block will be passed to this routine.   The routine
   will use a pointer within the Configuration Block  together  with
   offsets to reference the registers on the Board and will transfer
   information from the Board to the Configuration Block.

        calling sequence:

        ReadCalCoeffs323(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.



   build_control() - This module is used to generate a  control word
   for the AP323 board.   A  pointer to the Configuration Structure
   is passed to this routine.    The  routine  will  use  a  pointer
   within the Configuration Structure to  reference the registers on
   the  board.    Based  on  items  selected  in  the  Configuration
   Structure,  the  routine  will generate the required control word
   for the AP323 board.

        calling sequence:

        build_control(ptr);

        where:
        ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
        Configuration Structure.



   8. Description of Support Programs

   Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
   modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
   programs.

   apcommon.c - This  file  provides common support routines.

   drvr323.c  - This  is a program which demonstrates the  usage  of
   the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
   user to become familiar with the  AP323  board  and  the library
   software.   The user may,  through menu  selections,   configure,
   read from, and write to the board.










				   13

